---
layout: post

title: 'He&#8217;s Able'
date: 2009-12-30T01:15:40+00:00

excerpt: "19 years ago, we built the first school in a native village on the island of Mindoro, Philippines. Prior to this, the natives were denied an education. Even worse, they were programed by the majority population of Tagalog and Visayan, who had moved into the native’s areas, that they were dumb and therefore school was a waste of time for them ..."

categories:
    - Pinagbayanan

author:
    name: Mae Celstre
    bio: Missionary Teacher in the remote village of Pinagbayanan
    image: mae.jpg
    role: teacher
---

**I was very blessed by the Week-of-Prayer** held in Agbalite last October.  I learned a lot about prayer.  My prayer habit grew and I was encouraged to be a prayer warrior, especially since Tito Joe is always texting us to pray – morning, noon, and afternoon.

After the fellowship with other co-missionaries, we’re back to regular school days.  One of the parents came to us one Sunday afternoon and asked that his son be excused from classes because he was suddenly experiencing blurred vision.  We were alarmed, especially when we checked in the book, “Where There’s No Doctor.”  We don’t want any of our students to be blind, but we didn’t know what to do.  Unfortunately we couldn’t do anything for him except to pray.  That day and the following night I prayed for him several times, claiming God’s promise that all my prayers will be answered.  I clung to the song, “He’s Able,” especially the part that says, “He caused the blind to see.”  I remembered the story of Saul/Paul in Damascus and the blind men who were healed by Jesus.  I put my trust in God asking Him to heal our student.

After two days, Banjo came back to school.  He was very well.  His blurred eyesight has not returned to him.  I am so thankful that God answered our prayer.  Banjo has continued his studies amidst discouragements and has decided to stay in school even though many of his classmates have dropped.

After almost a month, Tito Jim came and I mention Banjo’s situation to him.  I was so glad to hear that Banjo’s problem was part of his growing and he needs to supply his body with the nutrients to sustain his growth.  Somehow I still feel that God answered my prayers to heal Banjo.  I will always remember how I was so worried thinking that he would be blind and how I felt when he came back to my class smiling because he was healed.  This experience gave me a special meaning to the song, “He’s Able.”
